# 180417
# retrospective

## 1. Today I learned

### confirm instans of Array
- in a fact, finding a prototype is very complicated.
- 


### multi-dimension array
- low level of linear-algebra


### hoisting
hoisting declare to top-side
- `var` and `function`
- useful and one the origin of bugs
- [memory mechanisma of javascript and hoisting](http://programmer-seva.tistory.com/35)
- [mdn - hoisting](https://developer.mozilla.org/ko/docs/Glossary/Hoisting)


### global variable
- no way


### reference
- it is not 'pointer' of C
- Not an adress of memory
- then... what?


### call by value and function example 

```js

let a = 1;

function add (x) {
  x = 2;
}

add(a);
console.log(add(a)); // 1
// // 값이 복사되어서 매개변수에 전달되는 것이지,
// // 변수 자체가 매개변수에 전달되는 것은 아니다.
// // 그래서 매개변수에 값을 대입해도, 원래 변수에는
// // 아무런 영향도 미치지 못한다.
```
- in to the function, `a` is not changed to the reference(2).
- the parameter and the variable of function get only the value from the `a`. 'call by value'
- so `a` has not any relation with the reference(2). out of the function, reference(1) of `a` is not changed. 
- so, `console.log(add(a))` return 1
- could not change the object(value) itself, could change property(reference) of the object
- **javascript do always 'call by value'**. there is no 'call by reference'
- **how could implement function initializing any variable to pure, empty object?**
- [async](https://helloworldjavascript.net/pages/285-async.html)


### immutable
- primal : immutable
- object : mutable
- immutablize
- 1. Object.freeze 
- 2. immutable.js
- 3. https://helloworldjavascript.net/pages/220-value-in-depth.html
- `const` is not immutable.

### wrapper object
```js
const str = new String("")
!!str // true
!!"" // false
str.a = 1
str.a // 1
```





## 2. Today I found out

### web worker
- support multi-core process?

### **closure**
- technic useing 'call by value'
- the parameter value of inner function is sticked by outter function cause the parameter value is copied as value. JS function work 'call by value' 
- in JS, closure is used for the alternative of 'class'. that technic named 'constructor(function)'

### locking inner variable by closure
```js
function personFactory(initialAge) {
  let age = initialAge;
  return {
    getOlder() {
      age++;
    }, // 교재에서 , 빼먹은 듯
    getAge() {
      return age;
    }
  };
}
// 초기의 initialAge를 설정해 주고 나면, 외부에서는 내부의 age를 getOlder() 이외에 변경할 방법이 없다.
// 만약 getOlder()도 없으면 초기 age의 값(의 참조)를 '전''혀' 바꿀 수 없을 것이다.
```


### primal, object
- primal type : stack, immutable 
- object type : hip, mutable
- ... am i right?



## 3. 오늘 읽은 자료 (혹은 참고할 링크, 생략해도 됨)

### hello Node.js
http://pyrasis.com/nodejs/nodejs-HOWTO/

### open tutorial
https://opentutorials.org/course/86/650

### cps
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuation-passing_style

