# 180329
# retrospective

## 1. Today I learned

### neutral tag
- `<div>` : standard display property value = block
- `<span>` : standard display property value = inline

### section tag or level
- declare explicitly and force structure of document 
- contain and wrap 'article' level

### background property family
- background-position tag
- multi background technic : multi background declare set which are divided by `,` charater
- - those declare set is affected by ohter property related with background and they also divide declare by `,` charater
- background-image tag
- - support vector gradient coloring 
- - also support proposition of color divide
- - combination of alpah of rbga and gradient coloring make hallarious effect that is overay on an other background image. (ex: photo filter effect)
- repeating-leaner-gradient property
- - useful at making grid guide line
- - not only used in making gradient effect, but also used in making repeated solid pattern
- - or, you can use googling 'web gradient site' and 'css3 Patterns gallery'

### em, rem index
- em : relative sizing by inherited font size
- rem: relative sizing by absolute value
- if i have choice, I WILL NEVER USE em.

### line-height property
- as name as, line's height of inline element
- in many, use numberic value, without any index. it is related with font size of element itself

### cursor property
- be possible to react between cursor and element which is normaly do not.

### text-shadow property
- support multi shadow
- googling ==> 'text shadow'

### codepen
if code is writen by Sass and want to convert css, then click 'compile css' which is beside of css window.

### transition property family
- transition-property : setting properties that you want to control. those properties are divided by `,`
- transition-duration : duration time to transit and animate
- transition-delay : declare transition ordering. co-related with order of transition-property.
- transition-timing-function : ex) ease-in-out. ==> transition timing function / the art of web (googling
- - cubic-bezier : animation controling with linear visual method

### flex property
- (text)node is also item for flex property. so no need to be tag.

### transform property
- values
- - skew : along axis
- - roate 
- - translate : move along axis
- - scale : along axis
- support mulit values and divided by `,`. those values are ordered automatically along the order of written

### animation property family and @keyframe

```
p {
  animation-duration: 3s;
  animation-name: slidein;
}

@keyframes slidein {
  from {
    margin-left: 100%;
    width: 300%
  }

  to {
    margin-left: 0%;
    width: 100%;
  }
}
```

- @keyframe : adjust beside state between start and end of animation
- - support 'frame' mechanism. able to adjust frame block or frame level.
- animation : adjust overall status of animation
- - animation-fill-mode
- - animation-direction
- - animation-delay
- - animation-duration
- - animation-iteration-count : repeat time
- - animation-timing-function
- - animaiton-play-state
- reference 
- - https://developer.mozilla.org/ko/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations
- - googling, steps animation. it could make high-definition ani-GIF hahahah.




## 2. Today I found out




## 3. 오늘 읽은 자료 (혹은 참고할 링크, 생략해도 됨)

